Wipro launches new platform for healthcare providers
BS Bibhu Ranjan Mishra  |  Bangalore  March 7, 2013 Last Updated at 14:52 IST
StockQuote T 449.7 449.7 

Bangalore-based IT services provider Wipro Technologies, on Thursday launched 'Wipro AssureHealth' platform in partnership with global software major Microsoft. The new platform is primarily targeted at healthcare providers to deliver solutions for remote fetal monitoring and cardiac care. The company claimed that, its new platform will ensure high quality treatment at reduced costs, especially for chronic diseases.
The Wipro AssureHealth platform leverages Microsoft’s cloud, mobility and analytics offerings to allow care providers to monitor patients regularly and precisely. This is done through hosted services and mobile applications that integrate medical devices, IT Infrastructure and 24/7 customer support, to deliver highly scalable solutions.
T K Padmanabha, Chief Technology Officer, Wipro Infotech, said: “Mobility-assisted medical technology will be pivotal in saving time, improving productivity and increasing convenience for physicians and the patients, thus improving patient care while cutting down costs. Through Wipro AssureHealth platform and our current choice of Microsoft platform stack, we help healthcare providers to not only improve their customer satisfaction but also generate new revenue streams.”
The fetal monitoring service delivers accurate recordings of maternal, fetal heart rate and uterine activity from the expectant mother to the physician over mobile device thereby enhancing the doctors ability to provide enhanced care to patients, the company said in a release.
The cardiac solution is based on Assurehealth software platform and delivers continuous wearable, ambulatory, non-obtrusive ECG data. It is designed to assist cardiologists to monitor and manage patients with angina, myocardial infarction, post cardiac procedures like stent, pacemaker and bypass as well as cardiac failures, from anywhere, through a smartphone or tablet.