Sensex snaps three-day losing streak on rate cut hopes
Mar 14 2013. 09 51 AM IST

StockQuote T 316 317.1

India’s benchmark share index rose 1.07% on Thursday, ending a three-day losing streak, as interest rate-sensitive stocks such as ICICI Bank Ltd rose after lower-than-expected core inflation data raised hopes the central bank would ease monetary policy next week.

The gains came after core wholesale price inflation was estimated to have risen 3.8% in February from a year earlier, according to a Reuters snap survey of three analysts and traders on Thursday, below expectations of a 4.2% rise.

The data, combined with the government’s pledge to stick to its fiscal deficit target, raises hopes the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will cut interest rate by 25 basis points at its policy review on Tuesday.

RBI governor D. Subbarao called the recently unveiled 2013/14 Union Budget “responsible” in a speech in London on Wednesday, further raising hopes for a rate cut given the central bank has previously expressed concerns about the fiscal deficits.

“At least 25 basis point cut is getting discounted in the market and RBI policy remains key,” said Daljeet Singh Kohli, head of research at IndiaNivesh Securities Pvt Ltd.

The benchmark BSE index rose 1.07%, or 207.89 points, to 19,570.44, marking its biggest single-day percentage gain since 8 March.

The broader NSE index rose 0.99%, or 57.75 points, to 5,908.95, closing above the psychologically important 5,900 level.

Rate-sensitive stocks such as State Bank of India gained 3.5% while ICICI Bank rose 2.3%.

Shares of top private sector lenders ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank Ltd and Axis Bank Ltd gained, recovering from morning falls sparked by accusations from an independent investigative journalist that the three banks had engaged in widespread money laundering.

All three banks said they would investigate the allegations, while emphasising they complied with all regulations adhered to high conduct standards.
Among auto stocks, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd rose 3.2%, while Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd ended 0.63% higher, on hopes RBI rate cuts would lower financing costs, boosting sales.

Infosys Ltd rose 0.4% after it said in a statement that the company had been selected by BMW Group as worldwide partner for application basis infrastructure
management services for five years. Reliance Industries Ltd gained 1.8%, while Oil and Natural Gas Corp. Ltd rose 1% on expectations of additional inflows as both stocks could see an increase in their weightage in FTSE indices after a rebalancing announced last week by the index provider, dealers said.

However, among stocks that fell, Titan Industries Ltd ended 3% lower on Thursday on concerns over stress on its working capital cycle and interest costs, dealers said.
Concerns over a proposal by the RBI of linking the gold leasing rate to the base rate could potentially reduce earnings by up to 10%, HSBC Securities said in a note. 
National Aluminium Co. Ltd (Nalco) fell 4.3% a day ahead of the government’s planned stake sale on Friday