Anadarko, Venugopal Dhoot launch $4.5 bn Mozambique gas sale auction
MINT Mar 05 2013. 12 37 PM IST

StockQuote T 311.1 310.9

US oil and gas explorer Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Indian billionaire Venugopal Dhoot have launched the auction of a 20% stake in a Mozambique gas field that could fetch $4.5 billion, people familiar with the matter told Reuters.

The Rovuma offshore field is drawing major interest after recent discoveries boosted Mozambique’s gas reserves to around 150 trillion cu. ft, enough to supply world number one importer Japan for 35 years. The east African country is expected to compete with Australia and Qatar as a major provider of liquefied natural gas (LNG) to Asia in the future.

PetroChina, India’s Oil and Natural Gas Corp. Ltd (ONGC) and Exxon Mobil Corp. are among suitors expected to submit indicative proposals, people with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters. Royal Dutch Shell Plc, which last year missed out on a stake in the same field when it lost a takeover battle for Cove Energy Plc, is also interested, they added.

Shell, ONGC and Exxon declined to comment. PetroChina officials were not available for comment.

Dhoot, who controls consumer electronics to mobile-phone services conglomerate Videocon Group, is leading the process and has hired two investment banks to handle the sale, the people familiar with the matter added.

First round bids are due on 14 March after an information memorandum on the sale was sent to potential bidders in early February, one of the persons familiar with the matter said.

Last year, Thailand state oil company PTT Energy trumped Shell to take control of Cove and its 8.5% stake in the Rovuma 1 field for $1.9 billion. On a similar valuation, the 20% stake on offer could fetch about $4.5 billion, people familiar with the matter said.

Anadarko is the operator of Mozambique’s offshore Area 1 with a 36.5% interest, while Japan’s Mitsui and Co. Ltd is the second-biggest holder in the block with a 20% stake.

India’s state-owned refiner Bharat Petroleum Corp. Ltd and a unit of Dhoot’s Videocon Industries own 10% each, while PTT has an 8.5% interest and Mozambique’s state-owned ENH 15%.

Shares in Videocon Industries, which has a market value of $1.2 billion, rose as much as 4.6% on Tuesday, outpacing a 0.6% gain for the Mumbai market index.

High price tag
Videocon is seeking about $2.5-$3 billion for its 10% stake, though people familiar with the matter warned buyers are unlikely to pay a huge premium over what PTT paid.

“PTT paid what was a good price, but to get to a $3 billion price tag is difficult,” a person familiar with the process said.

A spokesman for Anadarko did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Monday, while Dhoot declined to comment.

Dhoot, who ranks 38th in Forbes’ India rich list with a net worth of $1.5 billion, paid $75 million for the Rovuma 1 stake in 2008.

The Indian company is expected to use some of sale proceeds to pare debt of more than $5.5 billion.

Anadarko CEO Al Walker last month told an earnings conference call that the company was looking to sell a 10% interest in the block, taking the firm’s stake to 26.5%.
Together with ENI SpA which owns an adjacent field and is cooperating on building gas liquefaction facilities, Anadarko hopes to ship out first LNG in 2018.

Mozambique has a competitive advantage over America and European countries in supplying LNG to gas-hungry Asian markets due to its proximity, one reason why global energy majors are expected to take active interest in the sale, people familiar with the matter say.