Speed limits on Mahindra’s growth rate
MINT Mar 04 2013. 03 34 PM IST

StockQuote T 885.5 819.1

Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd’s (M&M’s) stock, a star performer on the Street, seems to be losing steam. After steadily bucking the auto sector slowdown for several quarters, concerns regarding growth are mounting due to the anticipated passenger vehicle sales slowdown, the negative impact of the duty hike on sport utility vehicles (SUVs) and continued sluggishness in tractor sales. The company’s stock price has fallen by 5% since January, almost in line with the benchmark indices. Compare this with the 27% return from April 2012 till date, when broader market indices returned less than 10%!

In the run-up to the budget, the stock started losing ground as investors expected an additional tax levy on diesel-run vehicles. Though this did not happen, M&M faces the brunt of the 3 percentage points increase in excise duty on SUVs, which comprise half its auto sales volumes and around one-third of total vehicular sales, including tractors. The utility vehicle segment sold 14% more vehicles in February compared with the same month a year back. This was slower than 18% growth in December and 33% expansion in January.

The company has successfully passed on input and other cost pressures to customers. After an increase in January, M&M reportedly raised prices for vehicles impacted by higher duty. The months ahead, therefore, are crucial to see if demand will cool off due to the impact of cumulative price increases in the last few months.

Apart from that, according to Umesh Karne, vice-president (research) at Brics Securities Ltd, “The gap between cost of ownership of a diesel vehicle and a petrol one has narrowed down from 16% a year ago to 12%, and is expected to come down further.” That’s because petrol prices have risen by around 10% in about a year, while diesel prices have gone up by around 20%. This could have a bearing on overall volumes for M&M (almost all its products are diesel-driven), especially since it comes at a time when the auto sector is sluggish.

Meanwhile, there’s no firm recovery visible on the tractor front either. A 3% drop in February volumes has meant a year-till-date contraction of 5.3%. That said, M&M has been among the few auto makers to be able to pass on most of the cost increases to the customers. It has not posted a drop in its utility vehicle sales so far. But the quarters ahead, especially in fiscal 2014, may see watered down growth rates given that the company’s skyrocketing growth in the past has set a high base. The fiscal year-till-date sales growth is now 9.3%, which pales in comparison with the 22% growth rate posted during the comparable period in fiscal 2012. Besides, analysts say three new models are targeted for launch at the end of fiscal year 2015.

All these factors are pointers to a slowdown in growth rates both at the revenue and profit after tax levels, although a drop in interest rates could minimize the impact. Incremental gains in M&M’s share price, which trades at around Rs.885, will come about more slowly.