IDFC real estate arm buys Rs.250 cr assets in Pune SEZ
MINT Mar 04 2013. 02 57 PM IST

StockQuote T 146.05 145.85

IDFC Alternatives has bought assets worth about Rs.250 crore in Pune’s real estate developer Paranjape Schemes (Construction) Ltd’s Hinjewadi special economic zone (SEZ) for information technology (IT) and information technology-enabled services (ITeS) firms and luxury residential space.

Infrastructure Development Finance Corp. Ltd (IDFC) set up its real estate investments business in late 2010 to acquire majority ownership in leased and rent generating IT parks and SEZs located in major Indian office markets. The focus is on developments with high-quality tenants, which offer opportunity for stable yield as well as capital appreciation.

Over the last 12-18 months, real estate-focussed private equity (PE) funds have increasingly started looking at buying developed commercial assets for rental yields as well as capital appreciation in the long term. These investors typically look for properties already developed and commercial space rented out with leases of over 8-10 years.

IDFC’s real estate investments arm is buying the constructed and rented part of the SEZ, said two people close to the development. Both declined to be named.
“The transaction is still awaiting approval from the environment and commerce ministry,” said one of the two people, adding that the approvals are expected in a month. The money raised will be utilized for funding further development in the SEZ, he said.

Shashank Paranjape, managing director, Paranjape Schemes did not respond to an email sent on Tuesday. IDFC refused to comment.

The first phase of the 2.6 million sq. ft Pune SEZ development, which has an integrated township, includes six buildings with a total built-up area of 1.4 million sq. ft. It has tenants like Accenture Services Pvt. Ltd and Persistent Systems Ltd.

Earlier, IDFC acquired an equity stake in a special purpose vehicle (SPV) called Galaxy Mercantile Ltd that owns a fully developed 1.36 million sq. ft IT park at Noida in the national capital region (NCR).

Bangalore-based real estate firm Azure Capital Advisors Pvt. Ltd is raising a rental yield fund of Rs.250 crore, with a greenshoe option of another Rs.250 crore. This is its second fund. The Rs.75 crore first fund, raised in 2010 was used for debt and equity deals.

There are many reasons for the focus on rental yield funds, said Shailesh Ghorpade, chief executive of Azure Capital. “It has a lot to do with the risk appetite of our investors. They didn’t want to commit long-term capital for real estate,” he said. The investors in such funds are called limited partners (LPs).

LPs are looking for a different instrument for exposure in the real estate sector, Ghorpade said. “With a rental yield fund, the risks are mitigated as it is a developed project and properties are already leased out. There is a regular cash flow through rents and one doesn’t need to wait for four-five years to see completion of a project,” he said.

Rental yields in commercial properties are 10-11% and such transactions also offer an upside of capital appreciation on the property over medium to long term.
“It is an attractive time to get in. Commercial properties are available at 30-60% rental discount to residential properties. There is a good chance of capital appreciation,” Ghorpade said.

According to him, rental yield funds are low-risk moderate-return funds. “Obviously, there is perception that real estate has to give over 20% returns. We sometimes have to educate investors about this.”

Typically, in any equity transaction-based development project, returns expectations are rather high—at least 25%. In a rental yield fund, it’s about 18%, taking into consideration of around 10% rental yield and 7% to 8% capital appreciation in a year.

Investors say rental yield transactions are turning out to be a safer option for taking exposure in real estate as developers are grappling to find buyers and projects are getting delayed due to lack of funding by banks and time-consuming approval processes.

Rental yield transactions are not without their risks though, particularly for PE investors who have investment horizon of five to seven years, said an investor, who did not wish to be named. Rental yield transaction are for the long term as leases to tenants are often for 10-20 years, he said, adding interior decoration of an office space, in accordance with a tenant’s requirement, is about 15% of the development cost.

“All this needs to be factored in before these transactions are made. We cannot liquidate when we want to and may even have to wait for 10 years,” he said.