Opening Bell 21 Feb | End of stimulus fears creeps into global markets
MINT Feb 21 2013. 07 54 AM IST

StockQuote T 152.25 152.45

Correction has crept into the global markets. Overnight, US markets slumped minutes after the Federal Reserve’s last meeting suggested the central bank may review its bond buying programme. According to reports, some Fed policymakers are worried that its easy monetary policies could stoke inflation.
While the S&P 500 lost 1.24% to 1,511, Asian markets opened on a weak note. Concerns that the Federal Reserve may limit the stimulus measures are leading to selling in shares of companies that derive most of their sales from the US. Nikkei at 11,419 is down 0.42%. Read the Bloomberg report.
Back home, ONGC Ltd, BPCL Ltd and Mitsui Group of Japan are planning to invest $1 billion to set up a 5 million tonne liquefied natural gas terminal in Mangalore, reported Business Standard. The company is yet to decide on location of the project.
Meanwhile, ONGC Ltd is in talks to buy Videocon’s stake in oil and gas blocks in Mozambique, reported The Times of India. Another state-owned firm Oil India Ltd has also shown interest in buying Videocon’s stake in oil and gas blocks in Mozambique.
The government has decided not to relocate the proposed power plant by NTPC Ltd at North Karanpura, Jharkhand, reported Mint. NTPC is likely to spend Rs.12,000-14,000 crore to set up the power plant.
Insurance regulator Irda has imposed Rs.50 lakh penalty on SKS Microfinance Ltd for collecting extra funds, apart from the premium. SKS Microfinance acted as a corporate agent of Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd. Read more.
Keep an eye on Shriram Transport Finance Ltd stock. TPG Capital is selling part of its stake in the company. According to Reuters, the private equity firm is planning to sell stake at Rs.715-755.9 per share. The stock closed at Rs.759 on Wednesday.
To avoid employee trouble, Maruti Suzuki Ltd and Hero MotoCorp Ltd have declared on Thursday a holiday at their plants. Industrial workers in Gurgaon are planning to participate in the strike called by trade unions. Read more.
Jaiprakash Power Ventures Ltd has raised Rs.950 crore through a qualified institutional placement of shares, reported The Economic Times. According to the report, the shares were subscribed at Rs.31.93 each.
Finally, here is the Bloomberg’s compilation of the highest and cheapest gas prices by country. Even though India ranked at 42, the average Indian has to work 1.1 days to afford a gallon of gasoline.