Bharti Airtel, Idea Cellular, Vodafone woo cell phone users with unique offers
ET 6 MAR, 2013, 01.23AM IST

StockQuote T 321 321

 Leading mobile phone companies BhartiAirtel, Vodafone and Idea CellularBSE 2.69 % on Tuesday introduced several offers for their customers. 

Bharti AirtelBSE 1.19 %, the country's largest telco by subscribers, launched free roaming for its prepaid customers in Delhi that would travel to Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand and West Bengal (barring Kolkata). Customers will have to pay Rs 21 for a month to access this service. 

Service providers have been against the policy of making roaming free of charge as envisaged by the government as telcos would have to let go of around 9% or Rs 10,000 crore of their annual revenue. 

Telcos like Tata Teleservices have also told sector regulator Trai that if the policy was forcefully implemented they may have to stop offering roaming services altogether. Trai was also informed that free roaming would impact long distance calling service as consumers residing in the same state or telecom circle, would pay the same as a local call charge when they would travel to another circle and make a call back home. 

Separately, Idea Cellular launched a 3G smartphone for Rs 5,390 which comes bundled with benefits of Rs 1,200 for 3G users. The model called Zeal is powered by a 1GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon processor and comes with 256 MB of RAM on board with Android 2.3.6 platform.

Idea customers using the smartphone can get 1 GB of free data every month for first 3 months and free Idea TV for first 3 months, by paying Rs 261. Idea Cellular now offers six smartphones going up to Rs 7,500 that come bundled with an Idea connection. 

Vodafone India on the other hand is expanding its all-women chain of customer care shops called Angel Store. The first of its kind retail concept store is completely managed and run by women employees. 

"The Angel stores are a part of Vodafone's commitment to provide our women employees with one of the most secure and productive work environment. Additionally, our women customers feel more welcomed while visiting the store. Going forward, we will continue to expand the Vodafone Angel Store network across more locations," Marten Pieters, Managing Director & CEO, Vodafone India said. 

The company has 15 stores and will increase their footprint going forward. 
