Opening Bell 8 March | Bharti Airtel and Pantaloon Retail in focus
MINT First Published: Fri, Mar 08 2013. 07 45 AM IST

StockQuote T 320.25 324.7

Asian markets are trading higher. Japan’s Nikkei gained 1.31% to 12,125 on positive economic data. Japanese economy returned to growth in the fourth quarter. The gross domestic product rose at an annualized 0.2% in the December quarter.
Also helping sentiment is the improving labour market in the US. The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week. Read the Reuters report.
The low jobless claims data helped the US markets close in the green with the S&P 500 gaining 0.18% to 1,544. Read more.
Back home, political parties have failed to reach a consensus on the land acquisition Bill. Another meeting has been scheduled for 20 March to try and reach a consensus. The new Bill proposes to lay down rules of compensation for the land purchased for infrastructure and industrial projects. Read more.
Keep an eye on Bharti Airtel Ltd. The company may sell 25% stake in its satellite television business, reported Mint. The loss making direct to home business is estimated to have an enterprise valuation of $1.1-1.2 billion.
Workers at Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd’s Nashik plant have called off their strike. The “tools down” agitation was called off after the management agreed to reinstate two office-bearers of the employees union and finalize on wage hike agreement by 15 April. Read more.
Pantaloon Retail (India) Ltd may continue to trade with positive momentum. According to The Economic Times, the company’s promoter is planning to sell stakes in the insurance joint ventures. Proceeds of the stake sales are expected to help Pantaloon pare its debt.
Post the death of Hugo Chavez, ONGC Videsh Ltd, Indian Oil Corp. Ltd and Oil India Ltd are concerned about their investments in Venezuela, reported Mint. These companies, which have invested billions of dollars in Venezuela, have little option but to wait and watch whether the Chavez regime policies will be continued.
Japan’s All Nippon Airways Co. Ltd (ANA), which has been in talks with SpiceJet Ltd for a possible stake purchase, has put the negotiations on hold, reported Mint. ANA is reportedly waiting for greater clarity of government policies in the aviation sector.
To drum up support for the carrier, Kingfisher Airlines Ltd CEO met officials of the aviation ministry and the regulator in New Delhi on Thursday. The airline has sought reassurances from the ministry that it be allotted some slots at the Mumbai airport when it restarts operations. Read the Mint report.
Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd will witness some action. The government, which is proposing to sell 12.5% stake in the company through offer for sale route, has fixed the floor price at Rs.45 per share. Yesterday the stock closed at Rs.43.85.
Finally, Britain is becoming a lonelier place. Over the past 40 years the proportion of people living alone has doubled and single parent families have tripled as households became smaller. Read The Telegraph report.